This is the Barbican, a concrete
fortress in the heart of London.
Compared with the rest of the city, the
Barbican looks strange.
Its buildings float above the ground on
massive pillars, connected by elevated
walkways.
Compared to the city's narrow streets,
brick warehouses, and Victorian [music]
architecture, the Barbican is different.
While most post-war housing estates were
considered failures, the Barbican is
some of the most sought-after real
estate [music] in the entire city. You
see, the trouble is that London grew up
without any plan or order. It looks out
of place, but a few decades ago, it was
revolutionary.
This is not [music] just any random city
neighborhood.
Once upon a time, the Barbican was an
experiment.
It was once the location of the City of
London's biggest [music] catastrophe.
Now, it's one of its most ambitious
architectural achievements.
This is the story of the Barbican,
Britain's strangest [music] city within
a city.
It's the Industrial Revolution.
London sucks [music] to live in.
An influx of factory workers means it's
growing rapidly.
With too many people and inadequate
preparation, slums start to develop.
Factories are built next [music] to
overcrowded homes. Disease and
dilapidation are rampant.
But German bombs gave the city an
unfortunate opportunity.
With hundreds of thousands of homes
destroyed,
>> [music]
>> London was suddenly a blank canvas.
So, dozens of plans emerged on how
London should rebuild for the future. We
had to find out everything about this
great city we were planning to rebuild.
Everything about its history and its
geography, its people and the way they
live. First, [music] the Mars 1942 plan.
London's historic core should remain,
but the city should expand east and west
on a linear spine,
which then separates into smaller new
linear cities.
It prioritized rail and shifted heavy
industry outside.
The LRRC plan suggested slicing London
into a bunch of parkways and railways.
Giant ribbons of green across the city
with major transport routes running
through them.
Between them separated new communities
[music]
with a giant green belt on the outside
that contained sprawl.
Then there was the Edwards plan.
Instead of a green belt, London would be
divided into four wedges [music]
with rapid and direct access to the
countryside.
However, none of these plans for London
would [music] be accepted.
Because there was another. And so, in
1941,
we asked our architects to prepare a
plan that would bring a new order and
dignity to the whole of the County of
London.
This is Abercrombie's plan.
>> [music]
>> A post-war rebuilding vision for the
greater London region and the County of
London. It isn't a hard and fast
blueprint.
Our plan is an idea.
A plan for something that is living,
something that is growing.
>> Traffic congestion would be solved with
ring roads. [music] Parking facilities
would be constructed and parking
minimums placed on new buildings.
A new network of open spaces,
>> [music]
>> a green belt, preserves the countryside
and brings in light and air. Yes, it's
rather like the way you plan a garden.
You've got to give the plants air and
sunshine.
And then also, you've got to give them
shelter from wet and cold. Children will
access new schools surrounded by parks
and sports fields.
Instead of being interspersed
haphazardly, factories will be
designated into [music] zones.
A million people from the inner slums
will be relocated to eight new satellite
towns in the suburbs.
There must be change. Always change.
As one season or one generation follows
another. Abercrombie's plan won.
But there was one area it ignored.
That's because London is made up of two
places, the County and the City of
London.
Each had their own government, but the
city had the most valuable land.
The historic financial core.
It was also its most decimated.
And they had different ideas from
Abercrombie on how it should be rebuilt.
There were two main factions.
On one side, the conservatives, the City
of London Corporation, and major
land-owning families.
If it's not broken, don't fix it. The
City of London is a financial district.
Just bring back the same offices and
institutions.
On the other side were the progressives.
Just because it's not broken doesn't
mean it can't be better.
Might as well repopulate it with better
residential and mixed-use functions.
New schools, shops, and gardens.
These two visions on how to rebuild
argued fiercely.
And at the center of their debate was a
huge plot in the old Cripplegate
district.
But it was a coordination nightmare.
Dozens of committees, competing
blueprints, every stakeholder had
different priorities. Someone had to
keep track of it all.
If only
they had Odoo.
It's an all-in-one business management
software [music] that provides
entrepreneurs with a wide range of
applications to simplify day-to-day
management of their business, [music]
including invoicing, website creation,
project management, and more.
Odoo's project app gives you a clear
overview of everything in one place. You
can create custom stages, add tasks,
assign people in charge, and set
priorities and deadlines.
>> [music]
>> It centralizes all your information.
Send emails, tag colleagues, attach
files, and schedule activities like
meetings, all directly on each task.
Compound boards let you move tasks like
sticky notes. Gantt charts show
timelines and dependencies, or use a
simple list view for batch actions.
The first Odoo app is free for life,
including unlimited hosting and support.
[music]
Full access to all applications starts
from just 19 euros and 90 cents per
month.
Try it at odoo.com/r/qyl.
The conservatives had the first move.
They proposed that the empty plot should
be restored to what it was before the
war.
Mainly offices with some housing.
This wasn't a popular idea.
The city had an opportunity they
wouldn't have again.
A clean slate.
Although the conservatives were
overrepresented in the city, the
progressives had veto power nationally.
So, the ministry blocked it.
The state wanted more forward-looking
plans like Abercrombie's.
So, they tried to pressure local leaders
to do the same.
Plots of land that did comprehensive
redevelopment up to the standards of the
national government could [music] have
parts of their loan paid off.
The empty plot could not simply be more
of the same. It had to be different.
The first [music] to go was the Cadbury
plan. A group of business owners
proposed a radical capitalistic [music]
scheme.
It involved digging down 60 ft, four
levels of warehouses and parking below
ground.
Above ground, three floors of
warehouses, factories, and offices.
Above all that, a self-contained
neighborhood topped with five more
office blocks for financial firms,
>> [music]
>> hotels, and restaurants.
This was a comprehensive redevelopment,
but not the type the government wanted.
The plan was considered too dystopian
with excessive density, few amenities,
little natural daylight, and dubious
economic viability.
Instead, a more realistic plan came from
the city's own planning department.
>> [music]
>> The Martin-Mealan plan proposed a series
of six office towers
positioned on a raised pedestrian
platform.
People would be separated from traffic
with highwalks, which would eventually
form [music] a complete network
throughout the city.
Additional office blocks would be built
in the northeast [music] and northwest.
It was a heavily commercial scheme.
Business owners [music] loved it.
But there was a problem.
By the 1950s, the City of London's
population was almost gone.
>> [music]
>> Too many offices, not enough housing,
and spurred on by Abercrombie, people
were leaving the city entirely.
An near-empty urban core would have
political ramifications, even for the
conservatives who mainly wanted offices
that would be more profitable.
Without enough people, they could lose
an MP or even [music] have their local
government totally dissolved.
So, the city turned to architects
Chamberlain, Powell, and Bon to come up
with another plan.
A post-war housing estate in the middle
of London
>> [music]
>> that would bring in enough people.
In late 1955, the architects submitted a
21-page report,
>> [music]
>> and it was unlike anything London had
seen.
Roads below ground,
segregated from a network of pedestrian
highwalks above.
A step pyramid to house recreational
facilities
>> [music]
>> and four-story buildings clad in white
marble.
Flats would be four stories
>> [music]
>> and open into small enclosed courtyards.
There would be towers, six pubs, four
restaurants, and art facilities all
surrounded by a moat.
The whole complex would be designed as a
pedestrian precinct, reminiscent of
Abercrombie's vision, but up to the
standards of the land-owning business
faction.
There was no frame of reference for a
project like this.
No one even knew if private developers
could afford it.
Trying to recoup an investment on a
residential build was already risky.
>> [music]
>> This one was crazy.
At the end of 1955, the two factions
rallied behind their favorite plans.
The pro-business faction backed the City
Planning Office's Martin-Mealan plan.
The progressive faction backed the
residential development. After heated
debates,
>> [music]
>> the Barbican passed by a razor-thin
margin.
69 in favor, 67 opposed.
Post-war housing gets a bad rap today.
Many have been bulldozed because of
vacancies and dilapidation.
>> [music]
>> The Barbican should have been a failure,
but it wasn't.
From the start, Chamberlain, Powell, and
Bon weren't building a typical post-war
housing estate.
For many architects at the time, the
answer seemed simple.
People needed homes, and they needed it
quickly.
Land outside the city was cheap, so
that's where build them. That housing
needed to be [music] dense, but
affordable.
Identical concrete standardized
high-rise housing blocks made that
possible.
Mixed use was a problem with the old
[music] disgusting cities.
These new ones were zoned strictly, and
they'd be clean, single-use and
residential.
When residents needed shops, [music]
cinemas, or jobs, they could always
drive.
They would be cities in a park, giant
towers surrounded by green, so everyone
could have equal [music] access to
light, air, and modern convenience.
But Chamberlain, Powell, and Bon
>> [music]
>> did not agree.
Instead of outside the city, the
Barbican was placed directly inside it.
It was a high-demand real estate market
close to the hub of global finance.
Many post-war housing blocks faced
problems with vacancies due to competing
suburban housing that was more
attractive.
But the Barbican [music] was able to
sell all of its apartments at full
market rates to a professional
population. Even when Abercrombie's
[music] plans were pushing Londoners
outside the city.
While public transit may have been an
afterthought with the new [music]
estates, the Barbican was connected
directly to the tube.
Without access to transportation, there
would have [music] been too much
friction.
Why would someone choose a disconnected
concrete flat if they can have their own
terraced house with a parking spot?
When people didn't go to the new housing
estates as planned, [music] they
spiraled. Empty apartments and a feeling
of a lack of ownership meant that the
fancy features and communal spaces
[music]
were overloaded.
Weeds start to grow, graffiti appeared,
communal spaces became dilapidated.
Property values that were already lower
on the outskirts started [music] to
decline even more.
Then the estate would attract no one.
But the Barbican [music] was different.
It was designed to feel like it was a
distinct place that created a sense of
ownership.
It stands apart from the buildings that
surround it. While glass and steel
structures [music] compete for space in
the skyline, the triangular towers of
the Barbican are composed to fit within
the larger site, like a fortress.
[music]
How people experienced the space was the
architects' chief concern.
Every detail [music] of the estate was
carefully considered. The scale and
rhythm of the columns, a constantly
changing perspective of terraces, lawns,
trees, and flowers, and how they were
seen against the background of the new
buildings.
Multi-level podiums meant to create
human-scale public areas.
They created their own brand, rather
than the monotonous concrete. Rounded
forms, a unique [music] typeface for
signs, even the concrete was
meticulously carved.
The architects had obsessive attention
to the most mundane fixtures, fire
hoses, elevator [music] buttons, and
even intercoms.
The raised podiums were inspired by
Venice.
>> [music]
>> The podiums were made of an earthy brick
intended to mimic the ground.
Elevated walkways separated pedestrians
from vehicles. [music]
Instead of honking, you were supposed to
hear birdsong.
The architects created U- and Z-shaped
terrace blocks designed to catch the
sun.
Ugly car parks and unattractive [music]
facilities were hidden below.
From the outside, you couldn't tell that
the Barbican was a green [music] oasis.
It was built to be a special, unique
place for its residents.
Not a tower [music] in a park that
belonged to everyone and felt like it
belonged to no one,
but a private oasis that belonged
[music] to someone.
It was the outcome of two competing
visions, combining the progressive
approach from Abercrombie. It needed
schools, [music] a church, a theater,
recreation, daylight, and an ambitious
vision [music] to try something new.
But it also needed to actually be
demanded by the people who were [music]
supposed to live there.
Architects and urban planners still
visit to study what Chamberlain, Powell,
and Bon got right.